Food Locator

The goal of this team is to organize information for food-focused
individuals using Yelp’s API by making data easily accessible to find
trending establishments. By organizing data from collected through
businesses associated with Yelp, we are striving to create a more
accessible food map for both tourists and locals to find popular cuisine
from the area. Unlike other services, this tool offers users the ability
to visually see patterns in where restaurants by types of a category, in
addition to restaurants trending now and local favorites.

With the audience of food-savvy users in mind, project’s purpose is to
answer three key questions of that these users may have, in order to for
the user to have a better sense of the trending restaurants in the local
area. These questions are:

1. What are the hot restaurants in the area?

2. What popular cuisines are in the area?

3. What restaurant should I go to?

To answer the user’s questions this tool will utilize overlays and heat
maps to reveal to the user information on restaurant popularity, which
restaurants they have been to, and what food is popular. Aggregated
information based on Yelp check-in results, star ratings, and user
information allow for this restaurant data to be displayed more
visually. By organization this information relative to geographic
location the user will be able to understand via visual patterns and be
better able to decide for which restaurant to go to.

The goal of the team is to accomplish this through the use of "Shiny"
app. With this tool, the team plans to create a heat map in combination
with the Yelp API to gather nearby information about the single user’s
visits and collective popularity of the restaurant. Yelp provides a vast
amount of information of restaurant popularity, and user-generated
review to aid in making a tool which will show these comparisons. Shiny
will allow the team create an effective map of the information gathered
from Yelp, to create a local heat map displaying restaurant popularity,
the popularity of restaurant cuisines, and places the user has visited
previously. In addition, the team plans to use the Ggplot2 and plotly
libraries to aid in creating the heat map.

With the information from Yelp, the team plans to dynamically select
counts of popular check-in locations. Looking at specific counts and
averages (# of visits, average rating), we plan to present the data to
the user in an intuitive heat map. From this, the team faces the
challenge of data wrangling a large set of information to answer
questions about the top restaurants in a local area. The team plans to
utilize the Yelp API to effectively organize large amounts of restaurant
data.
